In this video we're going to be
using the query builder in QGIS.
But first of all, let's organise
our layers list and delete some
of the layers that we don't need
any more.
So the first layer we can delete
are our sighting points that
don't have the environment data
attached to them.
So right click on this data
layer and click remove layer and
OK.
And just a point to make here,
if we wanted to add this layer
back into our layers list as
we'd saved it previously in the
Geo package that we made.
We can access this Geo package
in our browser panel by going
into our Hippogriffs folder and
then we should see our
Hippogriff Geo package.
So we can open this up and we
can see our two point data
layers in this Geopackage.
So if we wanted to add it back
in, we could add it in from
here.
And then the other two things we
can remove are our two tables in
our layers list.
So we'll right click on these
and remove them as well.
And now let's run the query
builder to select the data that
we want.
So we're going to right click on
our Hippogriff Sightings and go
into properties.
And then we want to go into the
Source tab and look just under
the section that says Provider
Feature Filter.
There's a button called Query
Builder and we're going to click
on this and now in this window
we can select what criteria we
want our data to be filtered by.
We're trying to find the
sighting of a nest that occurred
in a secondary forest.
So the first clause that we're
going to set is where sighting
is equal to nest.
So let's click the sighting
field in the fields lists.
Double click on this and then we
can click on the equals sign and
then to see the values within
this field we need to click on
the all button here and now we
can double click on nest.
So that's our first clause set.
But the sighting was a nest and
it was in a secondary forest.
So we need to click the and
button and then our environments
are in the field environment.
So we can double click on this
and then equals to click on all
to get our values and double
click on secondary forest and
now we can hit OK we'll click
apply and OK again I agree.
We can see that our points on
our map have been filtered for
our criteria and we can only see
the points that fit the criteria
that we set.
So we know that the sighting
occurred in Wonegizi protected
area.
This is the red Polygon for me
on my map and we can see that we
only have one data point here
where there was a nest sighting
in a secondary forest.
So this must be where we have
our missing data point because
two nests were actually at this
location.
So in the next video we'll be
adding another point to this
location, so just hit save to
save our progress.